---
title: Blue
date: 2017-09-25 13:23:57-04:00
f-stop: f/5.6
exposure-time: 1/400 sec
iso: ISO100
---

Blue is the colour between violet and green on the spectrum of visible
light. Human eyes perceive blue when observing light with a wavelength
between 450 and 495 nanometres. Blues with a higher frequency and thus a
shorter wavelength appear more violet, while those with a lower
frequency and a longer wavelength gradually appear more green. Pure
blue, in the middle, has a wavelength of 470 nanometres. In painting and
traditional colour theory, blue is one of the three primary colours of
pigments, along with red and yellow, which can be mixed to form a wide
gamut of colours. Red and blue mixed together form violet, blue and
yellow together form green. Blue is also a primary colour in the RGB
colour model, used to create all the colours on the screen of a
television or computer monitor.

The modern English word blue comes from Middle English bleu or blewe,
from the Old French bleu, a word of Germanic origin related to Old
Dutch, Old High German, Old Saxon blāo and Old Frisian blāw, blau. The
clear sky and the deep sea appear blue because of an optical effect
known as Rayleigh scattering. When sunlight passes through the
atmosphere, the blue wavelengths are scattered more widely by the oxygen
and nitrogen molecules, and more blue comes to our eyes. An optical
effect called Tyndall scattering, similar to Rayleigh scattering,
explains blue eyes; there is no blue pigment in blue eyes. Distant
objects appear more blue because of another optical effect called
atmospheric perspective.

Blue has been used for art and decoration since ancient times. The
semi-precious stone lapis lazuli, coming from mines in Afghanistan, was
used in ancient Egypt for jewelry and ornament and later, in The
Renaissance, to make the pigment ultramarine, the most expensive of all
pigments. It is the most important color in Judaism. In the Middle Ages,
cobalt blue was used to colour the stained glass windows of cathedrals.
Beginning in the 9th century, Chinese artists used cobalt to make fine
blue and white porcelain. Blue dyes for clothing were made from woad in
Europe and indigo in Asia and Africa. In 1828 a synthetic ultramarine
pigment was developed, and synthetic blue dyes and pigments gradually
replaced mineral pigments and vegetable dyes. Pierre-Auguste Renoir,
Vincent van Gogh and other late 19th century painters used ultramarine
and cobalt blue not just to depict nature, but to create moods and
emotions. In the late 18th century and 19th century, blue became a
popular colour for military uniforms and police uniforms. In the 20th
century, because blue was commonly associated with harmony, it was
chosen as the colour of the flags of the United Nations and the European
Union. Toward the end of the 20th century, dark blue replaced dark grey
as the most common colour for business suits; surveys showed that blue
was the colour most associated with the masculine, just ahead of black,
and was also the colour most associated with intelligence, knowledge,
calm and concentration.

Surveys in the US and Europe show that blue is the colour most commonly
associated with harmony, faithfulness, confidence, distance, infinity,
the imagination, cold, and sometimes with sadness. In US and European
public opinion polls it is the most popular colour, chosen by almost
half of both men and women as their favourite colour.
