---
title: Green
date: 2017-09-25 13:23:57-04:00
f-stop: f/5.6
exposure-time: 1/400 sec
iso: ISO100
---

Green is the color between blue and yellow on the spectrum of visible
light. It is evoked by light with a predominant wavelength of roughly
495â€“570 nm. In the subtractive color system, used in painting and color
printing, it is created by a combination of yellow and blue, or yellow
and cyan; in the RGB color model, used on television and computer
screens, it is one of the additive primary colors, along with red and
blue, which are mixed in different combinations to create all other
colors.

The modern English word green comes from the Middle English and
Anglo-Saxon word grene, from the same Germanic root as the words "grass"
and "grow". It is the color of living grass and leaves and as a result
is the color most associated with springtime, growth and nature. By far
the largest contributor to green in nature is chlorophyll, the chemical
by which plants photosynthesize and convert sunlight into chemical
energy. Many creatures have adapted to their green environments by
taking on a green hue themselves as camouflage. Several minerals have a
green color, including the emerald, which is colored green by its
chromium content.

In surveys made in Europe and the United States, green is the color most
commonly associated with nature, life, health, youth, spring, hope and
envy. In Europe and the U.S., green is sometimes associated with death
(green has several seemingly contrary associations), sickness, or the
devil, but in China its associations are very positive, as the symbol of
fertility and happiness. In the Middle Ages and Renaissance, when the
color of clothing showed the owner's social status, green was worn by
merchants, bankers and the gentry, while red was the color of the
nobility. The Mona Lisa by Leonardo da Vinci wears green, showing she is
not from a noble family; the benches in the British House of Commons are
green, while those in the House of Lords are red. Green is also the
traditional color of safety and permission; a green light means go
ahead, a green card permits permanent residence in the United States. It
is the most important color in Islam. It was the color of the banner of
Muhammad, and is found in the flags of nearly all Islamic countries, and
represents the lush vegetation of Paradise. It is also often associated
with the culture of Gaelic Ireland, and is a color of the flag of
Ireland. Because of its association with nature, it is the color of the
environmental movement. Political groups advocating environmental
protection and social justice describe themselves as part of the Green
movement, some naming themselves Green parties. This has led to similar
campaigns in advertising, as companies have sold green, or
environmentally friendly, products.
