---
title: Red
date: 2017-09-25 13:23:57-04:00
f-stop: f/5.6
exposure-time: 1/400 sec
iso: ISO100
---

Red is the color at the longer-wavelengths end of the spectrum of
visible light next to orange, at the opposite end from violet. Red color
has a predominant light wavelength of roughly 620â€“740 nanometers. Light
with a longer wavelength than red but shorter than terahertz radiation
and microwave is called infrared.

Red is one of the additive primary colors of visible light, along with
green and blue, which in the Red Green Blue (RGB) color system are
combined to create all the colors on a computer monitor or television
screen. Red is one of the subtractive secondary colors, resulting from
the combination of yellow and magenta, as in the CMYK color model.
Traditionally, it was viewed as a primary subtractive colour, along with
yellow and blue, in the RYB color space and traditional color wheel
formerly used by painters and artists. Reds can vary in shade from very
light pink to very dark maroon or burgundy; and in hue from the bright
orange-red scarlet or vermilion to the bluish-red crimson. Red is the
complementary color of cyan.

In nature, the red color of blood comes from hemoglobin, the
iron-containing protein found in the red blood cells of all vertebrates.
The red color of the Grand Canyon and other geological features is
caused by hematite or red ochre, both forms of iron oxide. It also
causes the red color of the planet Mars. The red sky at sunset and
sunrise is caused by an optical effect known as Rayleigh scattering,
which, when the sun is low or below the horizon, increases the
red-wavelength light that reaches the eye. The color of autumn leaves is
caused by pigments called anthocyanins, which are produced towards the
end of summer, when the green chlorophyll is no longer produced. One to
two percent of the human population has red hair; the color is produced
by high levels of the reddish pigment pheomelanin (which also accounts
for the red color of the lips) and relatively low levels of the dark
pigment eumelanin.

Since red is the color of blood, it has historically been associated
with sacrifice, danger and courage. Modern surveys in the United States
and Europe show red is also the color most commonly associated with
heat, activity, passion, sexuality, anger, love and joy. In China, India
and many other Asian countries it is the color of symbolizing happiness
and good fortune. Since the 19th century, red has also been associated
with socialism and communism.
